Function: net-ping
--------------------------------------

#### syntax: (net-ping *str-address* [*int-timeout* [*int-count* *bool*]]])\
 syntax: (net-ping *list-addresses* [*int-timeout* [*int-count* *bool*]]])

This function is only available on Unix-based systems and must be run in
superuser mode, i.e. using: `sudo newlisp` to start newLISP on Mac OS X
or other BSD's, or as the root user on Linux. Broadcast mode and
specifying ranges with the `-` (hyphen) or *\** (star) are not available
on IPv6 address mode.

Superuser mode is not required on Mac OS X.

In the first syntax, `net-ping` sends a ping ICMP 64-byte echo request
to the address specified in *str-address*. If it is a broadcast address,
the ICMP packet will be received by all addresses on the subnet. Note
that for security reasons, many computers do not answer ICMP broadcast
ping (ICMP\_ECHO) requests. An optional timeout parameter can be
specified in *int-timeout*. If no timeout is specified, a waiting time
of 1000 milliseconds (one second) is assumed.

`net-ping` returns either a list of lists of IP strings and round-trip
time in microseconds for which a response was received or an empty list
if no response was received.

A return value of `nil` indicates a failure. Use the
[net-error](#net-error) function to retrieve the error message. If the
message reads `Cannot open socket`, it is probably because newLISP is
running without root permissions. newLISP can be started using:

    sudo newlisp

Alternatively, newLISP can be installed with the set-user-ID bit set to
run in superuser mode.

    (net-ping "newlisp.org")     → (("66.235.209.72" 634080))
    (net-ping "127.0.0.1")       → (("127.0.0.1" 115))
    (net-ping "yahoo.com" 3000)  → nil

In the second syntax, `net-ping` is run in *batch mode*. Only one socket
is opened in this mode, but multiple ICMP packets are sent out—one each
to multiple addresses specified in a list or specified by range. Packets
are sent out as fast as possible. In this case, multiple answers can be
received. If the same address is specified multiple times, the receiving
IP address will be flooded with ICMP packets.

To limit the number of responses to be waited for in broadcast or batch
mode, an additional argument indicating the maximum number of responses
to receive can be specified in *int-count*. Usage of this parameter can
cause the function to return sooner than the specified timeout. When a
given number of responses has been received, `net-ping` will return
before the timeout has occurred. Not specifying *int-count* or
specifying `0` assumes an *int-count* equal to the number of packets
sent out.

As third optional parameter, a `true` value can be specified. This
setting will return an error string instead of the response time, if the
host does not answer.

    (net-ping '("newlisp.org" "192.168.1.255") 2000 20)
    → (("66.235.209.72" 826420) ("192.168.1.1" 124) ("192.168.1.254" 210))

    (net-ping "192.168.1.*" 500) ; from 1 to 254
    → (("192.168.1.1" 120) ("192.168.1.2" 245) ("192.168.2.3" 180) ("192.168.2.254" 234))

    (net-ping "192.168.1.*" 500 2) ; returns after 2 responses
    → (("192.168.1.3" 115) ("192.168.1.1" 145))

    (net-ping "192.168.1.1-10" 1000) ; returns after 1 second
    → (("192.168.1.3" 196) ("192.168.1.1" 205))

    (net-ping '("192.168.1.100-120" "192.168.1.124-132") 2000) ; returns after 2 seconds
    → ()

Broadcast or batch mode—as well as normal addresses and IP numbers or
hostnames— can be mixed in one `net-ping` statement by putting all of
the IP specs into a list.

The second and third lines show how the batch mode of `net-ping` can be
initiated by specifying the `*` (asterisk) as a wildcard character for
the last subnet octet in the IP number. The fourth and fifth lines show
how an IP range can be specified for the last subnet octet in the IP
number. `net-ping` will iterate through all numbers from either 1 to 254
for the star `*` or the range specified, sending an ICMP packet to each
address. Note that this is different from the *broadcast* mode specified
with an IP octet of `255`. While in broadcast mode, `net-ping` sends out
only one packet, which is received by multiple addresses. Batch mode
explicitly generates multiple packets, one for each target address. When
specifying broadcast mode, *int-count* should be specified, too.

When sending larger lists of IPs in batch mode over one socket, a longer
timeout may be necessary to allow enough time for all of the packets to
be sent out over one socket. If the timeout is too short, the function
`net-ping` may return an incomplete list or the empty list `()`. In this
case, [net-error](#net-error) will return a timeout error. On error,
`nil` is returned and [net-error](#net-error) can be used to retrieve an
error message.

On some systems only lists up to a specific length can be handled
regardless of the timeout specified. In this case, the range should be
broken up into sub-ranges and used with multiple `net-ping` invocations.
In any case, `net-ping` will send out packages as quickly as possible.


