Function: set-locale
----------------------------------------

#### syntax: (set-locale [*str-locale* [*int-category*]])

Reports or switches to a different locale on your operating system or
platform. When used without arguments, *set-locale* reports the current
locale being used. When *str-locale* is specified, *set-locale* switches
to the locale with all category options turned on (`LC_ALL`). Placing an
empty string in *str-locale* switches to the default locale used on the
current platform.

`set-locale` returns either the current locale string and decimal point
string in a list or `nil` if the requested change could not be
performed.

    ; report current locale

    (set-locale)     

    ; set default locale of your platform and country
    ; return value shown when executing on German MS-Windows

    (set-locale "")    → ("German_Germany.1252" ",")
    (add 1,234 1,234)  → 2,468

By default, newLISP – if not enabled for UTF-8 – starts up with the
POSIX C default locale. This guarantees that newLISP's behavior will be
identical on any platform locale. On UTF-8 enabled versions of newLISP
the locale of the current platform is chosen.

    ; after non-UTF-8 newLISP start up

    (set-locale)  → ("C" ".")

In *int-category* integer numbers may be specified as *category options*
for fine-tuning certain aspects of the locale, such as number display,
date display, and so forth. The options valid on your platform can be
found in the C include file `locale.h` and may be different on each
platform. When no *int-category* is specified, `LC_ALL` is used to turn
on all options for that locale.

  --------------------------------
  Category       Mac OS X, BSDs\
                 & MS Windows
  -------------- -----------------
  LC\_ALL        0

  LC\_COLLATE    1

  LC\_CTYPE      2

  LC\_MONETARY   3

  LC\_NUMERIC    4

  LC\_TIME       5
  --------------------------------


The default C locale uses the decimal dot, but most others use a decimal
comma.

    ; with the current locale "en_US.UTF-8", only change the decimal separator 
    ; to German locale comma on  Mac OS X. LC_NUMERIC is 4 on most platforms 

    (set-locale) → ("en_US.UTF-8" ".") 
    (set-locale "de_DE.UTF-8" 4) → ("de_DE.UTF-8" ",") 

    ; mixed locale shows country setting for each category, 4 has changed
    (set-locale) → ("en_US.UTF-8/en_US.UTF-8/en_US.UTF-8/de_DE.UTF-8/en_US.UTF-8/en_US.UTF-8" ",")

Note that using `set-locale` does not change the behavior of regular
expressions in newLISP. To localize the behavior of PCRE (Perl
Compatible Regular Expressions), newLISP must be compiled with different
character tables. See the file, LOCALIZATION, in the newLISP source
distribution for details.

See also the chapter [Switching the locale](#switching).


